HDDS-14343. Apache Knox integration documentation and Docker Compose demo (#490)
apache/ozone-site: docs/05-administrator-guide/02-configuration/03-security/04-knox.md

---
sidebar_label: Apache Knox
---

# Configuring Apache Knox

> [Apache Knox](https://knox.apache.org/) is a reverse proxy gateway for Hadoop ecosystem REST APIs and web UIs. Knox 2.0.0 and later can proxy Ozone services, giving users a single HTTPS entry point while hiding internal cluster hostnames and ports.

Reviewer: `OZONE-HTTPFS` is not available in `Knox 2.0.0`. It was added by [KNOX-2914](https://github.com/apache/knox/pull/765) (https://github.com/apache/knox/pull/765) after the 2.0.0 release, and the service definition first appears in the v2.1.0[ tag](https://github.com/apache/knox/tree/v2.1.0/gateway-service-definitions/src/main/resources/services/ozone-httpfs).

Could we require Knox 2.1.0 here, or clarify that 2.0.0 supports the Ozone UIs while HttpFS proxying requires 2.1.0?

Author: Fixed in eb709d3. Split the intro and prerequisites: Knox 2.0.0+ for Ozone UIs (OM/SCM/Recon), Knox 2.1.0+ when proxying HttpFS (KNOX-2914).

| `ozone.scm.http-address` | `scm1.example.com:9876` |
| `ozone.recon.http-address` | `recon.example.com:9888` |

## Accessing Ozone through Knox

After Knox and the topology are deployed, users reach Ozone through the Knox gateway URL.

### Knox homepage

Open the Knox homepage to see Ozone service cards:

```text
https://<knox-host>:8443/gateway/homepage/home
```

Authenticate with the credentials configured in the topology (for example, demo LDAP user `guest` with password `guest-password`).

### Web UIs

Direct links follow this pattern. For OM and SCM, the `host` query parameter must be the full backend URL (not just the hostname):

```text
https://<knox-host>:8443/gateway/ozone/ozone/index.html?host=http://<om-host>:9874
https://<knox-host>:8443/gateway/ozone/ozone-scm/index.html?host=http://<scm-host>:9876
https://<knox-host>:8443/gateway/ozone/ozone-recon/index.html
```

Replace `ozone` in the path with your topology name if different. In HA deployments, use the URL of the specific OM or SCM instance you want to reach.

### HttpFS REST API

Access HttpFS through Knox using the `/httpfs/` path prefix:

```bash
curl -ik -u guest:guest-password \

>   "https://localhost:8443/gateway/ozone/httpfs/v1/?op=LISTSTATUS&user.name=hadoop"

Reviewer: nit: This section (general usage, above the Docker quickstart) uses `https://localhost:8443` while the surrounding examples use `<knox-host>`. Would it make sense to use `<knox-host>` here too?

Author: Fixed in eb709d3. Updated the general-usage curl example to use `https://<knox-host>:8443` for consistency.

```

> The `user.name` parameter specifies the Ozone user to impersonate. Knox authenticates the caller; HttpFS performs the operation as the proxied user.

Reviewer: I tested the compose stack locally, and the `HttpFS` access log shows Knox rewrites `user.name` to the authenticated Knox user regardless of what the client sends:

```
GET /webhdfs/v1/?op=LISTSTATUS&user.name=guest
```

This is the request HttpFS received, even though the client sent `user.name=hadoop`.  So "The user.name parameter specifies the Ozone user to impersonate" isn't accurate in this setup. 

```suggestion
The `user.name` parameter specifies the Ozone user to impersonate. Knox authenticates access to the gateway, while this quickstart’s HttpFS backend uses the `user.name` query parameter through pseudo authentication.
```

Author: Fixed in eb709d3. Replaced the impersonation paragraph with your suggested wording about Knox rewriting `user.name` to the authenticated Knox user.
